---
title: "Devlogs: part 1"
date: 2021-12-24T23:24:25+01:00
series: ["devlogs"]
toc: true
---


## 25.12.2021

### auto-pairs
Fixed several annoyances, and expanded tests, as a part of responding to [#55][ap-55].

Still not sure what m and ms really do. I'd assume the s indicates "start", considering it checks the line prior to the cursor, but I don't really get it. Also not sure how it correlates to open == close, and the if statement does introduce a new question of how the close check relates to balancing.

I wonder if the two loops can be merged? Need to revisit for 4.0.0

## 26.12.2021

### Dawn

Handled a PR for a go template that introduced some doubt around how I'm handling output. Verbosity was intended to keep track of any changes made, but that might also be undesired.

Also not a super fan of git being hard-coded into templates. Might be worth introducing an option to auto-commit after generation, and then removing it from the template. Error handling doesn't appear to be a problem though, so it's fine for now, but would be about the least opinionated way of fixing it; i.e. supporting both in a configurable way, to make sure everyone's happy.

## 27.12.2021

### Genesis

The goal is currently to get a flat chunk going, and for that, I need dynamic buffer data.

Based on [this fantastic answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/15823859/6296561), the "go for a worst-case size and insert subsets"-strat is the best approach. Took longer to implement than I expected, thanks to a particularly nasty typo where I swapped around the index and size arguments of `glBufferSubData`, which wasted a good few minutes.

I don't understand the last paragraph of the answer though; why does `glDrawElements` mean random access? My best, and consequently my best idea for an implementation, is to basically make each VBO a grid. This means we only ever need to "sort" the index buffer to the start of the buffer, which isn't really a problem. I think. Not sure how I'm gonna go about this yet. For now, it might be easier to just update all the data for now, and rather sort out the probably bad decisions I've made later.

### Auto-pairs

Not dev, but observed a continued breakage in balancing if the quote is at the end of the line. Seems #55 still haunts in an edge-case. Not sure what the cause is here. I don't think it's balancing, but there could be an obscure edge-case with some indices that fucks up the entire thing. Need to investigate later.

[ap-55]: https://github.com/LunarWatcher/auto-pairs/issues/55
