---
title: Devlog 6: lots of behind the scenes work
date: 2022-08-17T21:12:22+02:00
series: ["devlogs"]
slug: devlog-6
---

## General push

I've had a fun couple weeks.

To make a painfully long story short, I have a Raspberry Pi that exposes an SSH port to the internet. Behind the scenes, there's several layers of hardening that I'm not gonna go too much into.

However, a core component in general protection has been fail2ban; a staple in my defenses, that used to do the trick. As of late, however, and particularly after upgrading to the master branch, it's been flaky, particularly around clear brute-force attempts. The lines are caught, but f2b just... doesn't read the lines. Or fails to apply the correct mode. Or both.

I then switched to CrowdSec, which was a dead end and a waste of time with garbage configuration, so I'm rolling my own; doesnotfail2ban (and yes, that name is a stab at fail2ban consistently failing 2 ban).

The bulk of my spare time has consequently been dumped into it. Combined with a general period of high activity in several other areas of my life, the end result has been a single focus on dnf2b.

It's not ready for deployment yet, but I have to get it to that point as soon as possible. I'm currently running a dual f2b and crowdsec configuration, because neither of them seem to catch basic threats.

As a consequence of rolling my own, though, I'm diving into a monopolized system with huge amounts of history with 0 experience or proper plan in advance. I imagine I'll be the only user, so my main focus is getting SSH protection online. I've aimed to design an expandable framework though. Any log files with a non-preallocated size in a plain text format (such as `/var/log/auth.log`) are supported, as well as custom formats. 

For the moment, the repo is private, but I intend to make it public soon:tm:. I have a lot of shit to sort out before I feel comfortable making this particular project public, largely because this is a monopolized market. Nose-diving into it would likely end up being messy, and I'd rather make sure I have a lot of answers before any potential questions show up.

Y'know, assuming anyone cares.

## Lua 5.4 part 2, and future plans

I have not yet started writing part 2, but as my time starts freeing up, I hope to squeeze it in between auto-pairs and genesis.

I feel like I've mentioned a push for auto-pairs several times by now, without ever really going through with it. The honest truth is that the effort is directed at 4.0.0, and that means refactoring, and it means challenges I don't even know where to begin with.

In the performance department though, I've come up with an idea that involves caching syntax IDs to  reduce lookup. I'm 99% sure part of the problematic calls are the mapping and string conversion. Comparing integers most of the time is substantially faster than comparing lots of strings, largely because strings are just lots of numbers with some metadata and terminators. (Massively oversimplified, admittedly)

But that's my bad code, and not jiangmiao's bad code. I think I need to extend various caches to make faster lookups, instead of the current brute-force iteration system. Some brute-force will still have to be involved, but extended caching would allow optimizations. I do still hope to cut down and document the code, but honestly, a lot of this is just unformulated ideas that my brain spew out randomly.

As for how this affects the Lua article... it doesn't. However, I do not have a timeline on it, and I'm not going to define a concrete one. I will, however, say that it's a month at most.

I also have some other article series planned, but I've decided to postpone these 'til after the Lua series is done. Writing technically complex articles takes time, particularly when I have to look stuff up as I go along. upm being deprioritized due to force majeure also means my Lua learning has been slowed down.

This was always to be expected though. This particular series is meant to make the learning process less painful for anyone else jumping straight to 5.4. I'm not competent enough to write a 100% accurate replacement for PIL. As much technical accuracy as possible does remain a goal though, and I imagine I'll revisit certain points in previous articles as I go along. And again, these types of changes will be explicitly documented for transparency.
