---
title: "Devlog #4"
date: 2022-05-02T00:34:29+02:00
series: ["devlogs"]
slug: devlog-4
---

Exam period has landed, so throughput is reduced for a while. Done on the 21st this month.

## Webdev

I noticed hugo apparently didn't like titles along the lines of `Devlog #1234`, and converted these to the URL `devlog-#1234`. At least my browser didn't like this at all, and failed to find the page properly. Which makes sense; # should never really be a part of the URL, so I'm not sure what Hugo was doing here.

Hacked around that by hardcoding the slugs for both affected devlogs. Done that for this one as well, and I plan to do so for all future ones as well.

Also swapped the language to en-GB because I can. Cleaned up some weird config.

---

Ran into a weird uglyURLs bug in Hugo for another project; turns out that if `uglyURLs` is set, Hugo makes the fantastically idiotic decision of converting `content/example/_index.md` to `/example.hmtl` in the final website, effectively breaking Hugo index files. Painfully hard to find the solution to. The normal debugging routes didn't lead me anywhere, and searches like "hugo doesn't render \_index.md" aren't particularly useful. Using `url: /example/` in the index file worked. Other files don't appear to be affected.

Relevant bug: https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/issues/4428

## Genesis

I finally got around to finishing mouse picking. Required a bit of matrix math, but it was deceptively simple. Spent an embarrassing amount of hours thanks to a nasty typo. Here it is again, reproduced for your reading displeasure:

```cpp
glm::vec2 Ray::normalizeScreenCoords(double x, double y) {
    return {
        (2.0 * x) / Settings::instance->getInt("height") - 1.0,
        1.0 - (2.0 * y) / Settings::instance->getInt("height")
    };
}
```

Pro tip: if you're normalizing window coords to OpenGL coords, make sure you're actually dividing by the correct dimensions. I tore down the entire matrix logic several times, and it took a solid few hours to discover that bug.

Since the game is top-down, I used a hack for determining the X and Y coordinate clicked. It's not a searching raytrace as a result, but this particular game allows it. I can basically do:
```cpp
double dist = -renderer.getCamera()->getPosition().z / worldRay.z;

glm::vec3 coords = renderer.getCamera()->getPosition() + ((float) dist) * worldRay;
```

Which is nice. Different games likely need to use different heuristic for determining where the ground or entity or whatever actually is, but 2D games have an advantage.

To be fair, my game is better described as pseudo-2D; there is a layer aspect, but it's not true 3D. This may change in the future, particularly when I'm not spending most of my time on getting 2D to work, but that's future me's problem.

Also fixed rectangle collisions, but I have a number of bugs in the inner workings of the collision checking system, as well as a couple other systems. The only real way to fix them is annoyingly to ignore the bugs and push on.

## Pandora

Something is severely wrong with Pandora, but I cannot understand what. There's an autocmd that's periodically broken and complaining about invalid commands, but I cannot reproduce consistently. I thought I fixed it with the Vim9 patch I did a while ago, but guess not.

I haven't debugged it much yet, though, and I'm not sure if it's worth it. I'm barely using it myself at the moment, and my markdown use has dropped through the floor. There has to be a better approach to the problem, but not sure what it is.

## The current plan

Genesis is back in action, and will likely receive the bulk of my attention, at least barring some short downtime because computers and vacation.

I plan to get back into auto-pairs for some 4.0.0 overhauling. The primary focus for now is cleaning up the insert method for readability, performance, and eventually flexibility. Updating pairs to make regex optional is also on the table. Done minimal investigation at this time, complexity may prove to be higher than anticipated. I have no idea how optimized jiangmiao's initial code was; I know parts of it were and still are a complete mess, but whether they solve certain problems in an optimal way remains unclear. Time will tell, I suppose.

Unfortunately, this change will likely break some matches in the wild. May need to find a way to communicate that in advance, but from what I've seen, only a small fraction of people use 4.0.0. Impact should be minimal prior to merger.
