---
title: Devlog 5
date: 2022-08-06T21:56:58+02:00
series: ["devlogs"]
slug: devlog-5
---

It's been a while, but I'm still alive. Unforeseen consequences (lots to do outside the realm of programming for fun, stuck on a Windows computer that I have to keep Windows because uni, ...) over the past couple months killed throughput in several areas, as well as proper bookkeeping.

## Auto-pairs

Documentation received a bit of an overhaul, and got extended to include rust-related troubleshooting.

Also added a couple config variables for better control of when to trigger pair deletion, wrt. cursor position. 3.0.0 additionally had the experimental autocmd enabled by default, as 4.0.0 will see it deprecated.

4.0.0 saw the introduction of duplicate help tag checks, though not much has happened on that front. 4.0.0 will have to become a main focus in the next period, with code cleanup being the main priority.

Unfortunately, auto-pairs is one of many examples of plugins that would benefit from Vim9script, but where the main migration is effectively blocked by neovim users. This is the only Vim plugin I maintain where I'm currently maintaining nvim support, and intend to do so for the near foreseeable future. A second factor is that Vim9script is still breaking, and I'm maintaining compatibility with 8.1 patch 1400-something, where the `..` operator was added. Easily looking at a few years before a vim9script migration is feasible due to that requirement, though I might add a separate autoload system for accelerated scripts.

The code split that results in is a pain, though. Maintaining both legacy Vimscript as well as Vim9script can and will result in challenges, particularly for large amounts of code. Maintaining two copies and ensuring they remain identical is a challenge I'm not sure I want to take on.

I make a similar argument against localized versions of help documents, which is why I don't plan to translate or allow official translations of help documents in anything I maintain. I fully understand and sympathize with the goal, but unless I end up with enough of a userbase to have active people at all times guaranteeing the translated documents stay up to date, there will eventually be fractioning in the information available.

And it isn't like English is a particularly obscure language either. It's an international language increasingly becoming the standard for international communication, and it's widely used in tech when code has to be universally understood. I just assert that anyone using my stuff either has access to a translator, or knows English, and I don't find that to be an unreasonable assumption. Both Google and Bing have translators, and there's plenty of other translators out there.

Admittedly, translators aren't all that great, but all of this is such a massive digression that I just have to stop here.

## upm

upm has been a major focus in the period, with it probably and by far receiving the most attention of all my projects.

After a lot of back and forth on the problem of Lua, I decided I had to. It's the only way to ensure customizability, and forces me to define a clear API, but in a way that also minimises other problems.

Lua 5.4 has been an interesting journey. A lot of time has gone into it, and I still expect more time to go into it. The main problem with Lua 5.4 is that there's effectively no C API documentation. There's the technical documentation, but it doesn't show usage, or examples of how to achieve stuff. With 0 background in Lua's C API, it was effectively useless to me.



## Webdev

Lua 5.4 being a nightmare to get started with spawned an article series, with the first and currently [only article]({{<ref path="/posts/2022-08-02-lua-54-introduction.md">}}) consisting of 5.6k words. I overboard with that, but hey, here we are. While I'm not entirely sure about the factual accuracy of the article, it ensures two things:

1. There are things that are accurate, and consequently should be able to help other people not suffer as much as I did, trying to patch together outdated documentation with brand new, incompatible functions.
2. [Duty calls](https://xkcd.com/386/); if/when I'm wrong, and if the series gets any attention from anyone deeper in the C API than me, odds are solid I'll get corrections. As I said in the initial post, I'm planning to write erratas for each article if needed, in addition to just correcting the post.

While xkcd is mostly humor, they're shockingly correct about others. "Duty calls" indicates an actual thing that happens on the internet, and I'm hoping to take advantage of it to make Lua 5.4 easier to start with.

I also added an upcoming category for the project list. I also listed a possible future project, though I'm not yet sure if I'll go through with it. Might still cancel it, we'll see.

I might also write an article about complaints against Vim9script, though I haven't decided whether I want to get in the line of fire there. Spoiler alert: I'm massively in favor of Vim9script, a lot of nvim users' arguments are trash, etc.. Don't  get me wrong, there are several valid complaints about Vim9script that I fully understand. However, these don't appear to be the main focus of quite a lot of the arguments against Vim9script. I digress.

While I'm already getting into educational articles, I've considered writing one on Vimscript and Vim9script. An initial attempt to get the start of such an article failed though, because writing is hard. My bet is that I wasn't in the mindset for it.

## Dotfiles

In the start of the period, a bunch of attention went to making my dotfiles windows-compatible again. By that I mean, a lot of time went to disabling cool shit I don't get on Windows, because everything is broken.

That aside...

[Vim 9 is here](https://www.vim.org/vim90.php), as a shock to nearly no one atm, because this happened [on 28.06.2022](https://github.com/vim/vim/tree/v9.0.0000), or over a month ago. This means vim9script is finally cannon. I have not yet converted my dotfiles to vim9script, however, due to [problems with `-u`](https://github.com/vim/vim/issues/10772).

`-N` alongside `-u` does solve the problem, but it took too long to discover that workaround (thanks though, k-takata!), so the migration has been postponed to Later:tm:.

What I did have the chance to do, however, is notice the Vim 9 release documentation. Some of the highlights:

* `set wildoptions=pum`, which gives a popup-based completion menu.
* `'thesaurusfunc'` and thesaurus completion
    * As an aside, while not new, I also discovered `'dictionary'`. Sadly, both require lists I don't have access to, so I'll have to figure out what I do to get these to work. Word completion would be incredibly nice, and so would synonym recommendations
* `charcol` and `charidx`; should help alleviate script-based unicode issues.
* Vim9script, of course
    * I'm considering porting airline to vim9script. It's better suited for high-performance applications, and airline is most certainly one such application. I'll maintain it as a fork, however, because neovim users got a previous vim9 change reverted, and the maintainer wants compatibility with neovim.

      Meanwhile, I don't particularly care about nvim. They've already fractioned the plugin community by pushing for an incompatible Lua API, and they're now preventing large-scale adoption of vim9script
* There's apparently new stock colorschemes, though I've not yet looked much into them. I really appreciate the revisit of stock colorschemes. While I'm not sure there's any colorschemes I'll like in there, it's nice that Vim is placing more focus on them.

  Colorschemes are an enormous part of the editor; a bad colorscheme can deteriorate the experience, and it's incredibly nice that Vim is focusing on them, and including the community in the push.
* `spelloptions`; camelCase words no longer cause incorrect spellcheck errors.

And while not new to Vim 9, Vim 8 apparently added a test framework? I have no idea how it works or how I use it, but I need to figure it out. If I can use it to replace themis, that'd be great.

Also been diving back into sessions, and they're an incredibly useful tool. I'll have to set up xolox' session plugin again at some point, but it'd save me a lot of logistical overhead.

I also need to look into adding custom word lists to my dotfile repo, alongside figuring out a way to easily acquire thesaurus and dictionary files for completion. I might also find an extended wordlist for Vim's `'spell'` feature in general, but that's a problem for future me.

## Workflow changes

A couple weeks ago, I started using [Zim](https://zim-wiki.org/) for more in-depth journaling. Not all this journaling gets published here, but it's also to help me keep track of logistics, as well as current issues. I also use it for other journaling where I need searchability.

Aside letting me keep permanent posts for proper internal self-documentation, it also lets me keep daily journals, as well as tagging stuff. Really good for staying on top of current challenges.

I'm still doing bullet journaling on the side, but I'm not primarily using it for technical applications. Zim is searchable, bullet journals are not. While bullet journals are still meant for retrospectives, it's not great when I pick up a project I haven't worked on in a while and can't remember what the fuck it is I'm doing.

Zim also works fine with my network share. Bit of a pain if I forget connecting the network share before I start Zim, but that's trivially fixed by starting it :p I have a batch script since the terminal command is disgusting, though I may adopt a shell script for Linux as well, or find a way to make a shortcut. Linux is awkward at dealing with disconnected sshfs folders though.

In the config space around my NAS, I also set up hibernation using hdparm, which is such a garbage name. I keep writing hdparam :') Not that it really matters, I've set up the config file properly now, so I don't have to play around with it for the near foreseeable future. The goal here is to reduce wear on the physical components of the disk to prevent data loss.

It's a home-made NAS, which is just a glorified way of saying I plugged in an external HDD to my RPi. To be specific, it's a Seagate Expansion Drive, and it has to be five years old by now. I really should invest in a new one, preferably one that's a bit more resilient to being on 24/7. There's a lot of missing pieces of this gigantic puzzle though, so I'm not gonna talk too much about it. If I decide to though, it'll have to be soon, considering the ongoing threats against 21 million people, as well as [over half the global semiconductor production](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-59900139). These are scary times we live in.

In unrelated news, I've started using [ActivityWatch](https://activitywatch.net/) to better keep track of my time. I spend a lot of time on my computer, and I'd like to know where that time goes. I've been wanting to do this for a while now, but the main challenges have been privacy, and more importantly, Linux support. Doesn't have sync yet though, which is a bit of a pain when I'd like to use it on all my devices and only have a single dashboard, but it is what it is.

## Acacia

Acacia has stalled. Challenges surrounding transport of data between tree-sitter and Vim, as well as the setup system for other queries has made me reconsider the project.

Assuming I've fully understood everything, it might seem that individual queries require individual API calls, which is an issue. If I can't trivially retrieve the important points and send them to Vim for processing, the purpose is defeated.

Tree-sitter is also a thing Bram is looking into, alongside alternatives. While there are questions left to be answered, considering alternatives are on the way in the near future now that Vim 9 has been released, I'm not sure if it's worth continuing.

## Other projects
### Pearl

Like I wrote earlier, I'm stuck on a Windows computer, and a laptop at that. Consequently, I've lost a lot of time on other projects needing extra attention on Windows. No code has been written yet as a consequence.

I'm going back south in 13 days, however, at which point I'll have access to my Linux desktop again, along with the QOL boost that implies for my particular workflow. Pearl is in the priority queue, though it's one of the side-quests.

I did, however, realize that what I'd like to do here is shockingly similar to Nova, a terminal utility that failed because I wanted to rely on DLLs. upm resulting in a crash-course in Lua does, however, confirm Lua as a viable approach for setting up this system. I've yet to decide what type of dashboard I want though.
