---
title: "Devlog #2"
date: 2022-04-03T22:58:27+02:00
series: ["devlogs"]
---

I've once again revised the format of my devlogs. Instead of using a single post that I edit, I'm going to publish individual posts for some range of time:tm:. What that range of time is, is going vary. Some times it could be a week, while other times, it could be a month. In either case, I hope this is easier to follow.

## Acacia

Following the heavy development at the start of April, stuff has started slowing down. Getting queries up and running is a lot tricker than I expected.

Due to the heavy use of API functions, it seems that I need to set it up in a way that does use Vim9 to dispatch commands, but I need to use C++ for a lot of the computation. Nvim is set up in a way where it exposes the bulk of the functions through the API, and I don't get that luxury when I polyfill in a server.

Does this scale? No. It more or less kills off custom modules for the near foreseeable future. I do have an idea of sorts, though; custom modules would still need to be C++, but by loading DLLs, it can be done. It's still not great, to say the least, but it's really the best I can do. Because `libcall` doesn't persist the dynamic library (read: it immediately closes it), it's not possible to load a DLL that stays alive in the background, with easy access from Vim. 

Consequently, I need to define a query interface, but the fun doesn't end there. Aside applying queries, these presumably still need to be interpreted by the module. Admittedly, I have no idea where the queries come into play yet. This needs further investigation.

---

Somewhat interestingly, it turns out that any messages that use a non-0 ID actually require an explicit callback. This is somewhat weird behavior, in my opinion. It seems that the generic callback attribute is for id == 0 only; any other IDs require the caller to explicitly define the callback.

While potentially annoying, this does solve a problem I made; how do I do indent if it's dependent on an async response?

Indentexprs need an immediate reply, and that's only possible with a blocking call, which I've now found.

Granted, I'm not sure what the long-term performance impact is like, but tree-sitter is blazingly fast. I may, however, start with indentation instead of highlighting, largely as a proof of concept, as well as a way for me to get acquainted with the tree-sitter API, before diving into the more complex world of Vim highlighting.

There's a few major questions on that front that remain unanswered, particularly wrt. the internals of the highlighting system. I believe I need to use props for it to work, but I'm not sure how that affects performance.

Granted, the highlighting is going to have to be done in two phases: first the whole buffer, then an incremental system, similar to what nvim has. There's only so much highlighting that can be done in a second, and if my experience with auto-pairs is indicative of anything, it's that at least some of the highlight functions are uncomfortably slow. We'll have to see where that goes.

In general though, there are a lot of unanswered questions here that I'll only figure out when I get into it. There's a [Go implementation](https://github.com/mattn/vim-treesitter/blob/main/autoload/treesittervim.vim#L72) with a similar idea that never went anywhere, and it uses props too. I could probably benchmark it, but I could also not. Seeing it in action should provide enough information. As frustrating as this is to say, there's not really any other options other than to wait and see for now.

---

The calls being async is technically wrong. Any responses with an ID go to the callback supplied by the specific sendexpr-call, and not to the global callback. The result is that whereever it isn't explicitly defined, messages with an ID are received blocking, and messages with ID 0 are received in the callback. Also explains some weird bugs where nothing dispatched, though I still have 0 idea what the fuck that  was about. The piping system is kinda trash: if invalid JSON is returned, or the program dies, weirdness ensues. Missing pipe flushing on the runner  thread did cause some problems, however, but that's a category of its own. Weird that the two blocking calls also appear to block IO; doesn't make sense. I thought the streams were fundamentally async, but I guess not.

Going to back off the project for a bit. Need some time to think about the implementation before I continue. The challenges keep stacking up, and custom modules remain dead in the water. Not even sure if there are custom modules, but there could also be other options. 

## Upm

I've largely been diving deeper into Lua. Turns out that the C API doesn't work well with arguments. Or rather, if I want arguments, I not only can't take them as arguments to my callback, _I_ am responsible for ensuring parameter count, potential default values, types, and error messages. I guess it makes sense, but it just feels so unnatural to me.

Callbacks should have all the relevant arguments as a part of the method definition, but I guess stuff gets weird when dealing with languages. I mean, for all I know, this is how C/C++ functions are done in assembly. 

No real progress has been made, however. I'm close to making a proof of concept networking endpoint, and after that, it should be straight-forward to deal with the rest.

I'm not sure if I want to move existing installation methods to Lua or not, but I feel it makes sense. That would also make the code cleaner, and let me use a uniform pipeline for installation.

The general idea, simplified, is that a Lua script can look like this:

```lua
-- Heavily compacted; realistically, this is bigger for everything.
-- Going to supply some helper functions for parsing, but can't do everything.
-- Consequently, this is semi-pseudocode
local latestPackageURL = parseAPIResponse("https://example.com/vixen/latest?os=linux");
local version = -- somehow extract the version

local workingDir = download(latestPackageURL);
-- Copy-pasta prebuilt
install(workingDir, "vixen", version); -- installs in UPM_INSTALL_DIRECTORY/vixen-$version
-- Makefile-based installation is currently to be determined. I imagine I need to add
-- functions that fuck around with the prefix and whatnot, but that's hard.
```

Basically, the C++ side becomes the runner and API, the Lua scripts manage the flow.

There are still unanswered questions I need to figure out, but for now, this is an early draft so I can make a proof of concept. As packages become more complex, the process will have to be revisited.

I'm also not sure how installation would work; as in, installation of upm. Particularly, where do I dump the scripts? Installation and self-updates in general are going to be challenging. I imagine I'll want to do a fully self-managed system, with a manual install as a bootstrap. If I then want to add .deb files or similar for installation is a good question. I wanna say no, largely because they'll need a rebuild, and that's annoying to do :p In either case, a shell file that does stuff automatically is also a solid bet. It's not too bad to do installation anyway, thanks to CMake. CMake makes that part less, well, infuriating.

Yeah, that's right, I'm talking about you, raw makefiles. You know what you did! 

Although it could be worse. Treesitter doesn't have makefiles. I did hack one together (and it works like a charm, by the way), but compiling them manually is _so_ annoying. So many manual flags and settings to keep track of.

## Pearl

Brand new project, because I didn't have enough already. /s

Pearl is going to be a dashboard, because I have an increasing amount of stuff to keep track of, and it'd be nice to condense all of it into one place.

Notably, I'd like to have a button for toggling pi-hole without needing to log in as often, a way to track fail2ban, general points of interest such as, but far from limited to, GitHub activity, network statistics, pihole statistics, last.fm statistics, a lot of statistics in general, and other control features. Not sure how I plan to glue all of this together, much less protect or display, but I do have some initial plans.

The thing, though, is that I also want stats from multiple devices. By multiple, I mean two. Contextual configurations also mean I can't go with exiting options like wtfutil, hence why this project has showed up.

It's only in its preliminary phase, and no coding has started yet. This is a side-project (though ironically, it's a side-project of a side-project), and I don't expect to do anything in the immediate future.
