---
title: "Devlog #3"
date: 2022-04-29T00:30:43+02:00
series: ["devlogs"]
slug: devlog-3
---

## Upm

I did some more work on upm, particularly in the realm of Lua. Largely, I started getting into arguments and return values from the C API. It's a nasty and complex system to deal with, but whatever.

I've considered abstracting some Lua helpers away into stc, but haven't yet decided on what, if anything.

There's now a basic network test API for me to continue building on when I get that far.

## Pearl

Did some more conseptualizing.

Inspired by some network failure today (what fun!), it'd be cool to implement a local IP ledger. I'm not sure how I'm going to do that. The idea here is, I want to keep tabs on the local network. If the only option is brute force, that means I have to check 255 IPs or something like that manually, and then figure out how to get a meaningful hostname out of it. I imagine ARP broadcast messages are applicable, but I have 0 idea how to send them myself.

On the UI front, I've more or less decided on a terminal-based system. I have no idea what I'm getting myself into here, and I imagine I'll have to take advantage of ncurses to save myself some pain with UI rendering, but this seems like the easiest option. And I do like the terminal, soooo :p

Not sure how I'm doing modules yet. Half the reason I dislike wtfutil is that the only supported modules are compiled into the binary. You might see where this is going: yes, yet another Lua API, because it's really cool to embed a language in scriptable form, even if its API is a pain in the ass. Fite me.

I have enough to get started on the code, but will have to wait and see how stuff works out with exams and other Fun Stuff:tm:. 

## Dotfiles

TL;DR: I got a new computer, had to set it up, and consequently had some quality time with my dotfiles.

Beyond some bugfixes, I decided to expand the software section. Also made a few tweaks to actually use the software tasks in the `all` task, and split software and dotfiles into two phony tasks. This means I can set up dotfiles and their dependencies with `make dotall`, `make all` to get dotfiles and software, and `make software` to just get the software.

`make all` is primarily intended as an install helper, though. It's meant to help me get a new computer online, fast, with minimal manual work. This means downloading themes, installing dotfiles, installing software I rely on, and installing software I just enjoy. Unfortunately, it still has some issues. Consequences of dev on prod I suppose, but I haven't been feeling adventurous enough to set up Docker just for the sake of testing my makefile.

Beyond that, I had to make some tweaks to my vimrc while debugging a disproportionately large UI startup lag. I ran into [this issue](https://github.com/vim/vim/issues/5246), added the hack chrisbra mentioned, and it was fine. The rest of the details is in a comment I posted on there, if you're interested. I won't be repeating them here.

I also added a couple aliases, and plan to expand it and my vimrc in the coming days. New computer means new QOL focus, I suppose.

## Computer clusterfuck

Unfortunately, this devlog gets cut short by hardware. And yes, this is a rant, feel free to skip. **TL;DR:** don't buy MSI laptops.

Long story short, the hinges in my MSI laptop broke a few months ago, and I've been managing them with two-component glue since. They broke again over easter, I got some better glue (lockite epoxy is not as strong as they advertise, in case anyone's wondering), and it's substantially more solid now.

In the wake of that, I decided to get a desktop computer to offload my heavy work, largely because I was expecting other hardware to struggle. Foreshadowing, by the way.

It arrived on Tuesday this week (it's technically Thursday at the time of writing, even if it's just past midnight into Friday). That same day, the fans in the previously mentioned MSI laptop decided to say kthxbye and die entirely.

This is also why a few of my repos had commits that just said "Emergency commit". I had to get stuff off fast, and still have stuff I should recover. Basic troubleshooting has so far failed, and [some research](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SeDX2mEW-Mk) indicates that the only fix is replacing the fans. Worse than that, this isn't a one-off issue, and neither is the video. This is MSI once again demonstrating their outright incompetence at hardware. 

Unfortunately, shuffling around hardware last minute has delayed my planned progress (along with the typical procrastination and generally being busy; this time of the year isn't fun)

The data loss is in theory minimal, and while it's still usable enough to continue data rescue, unless it fixes itself as magically as it broke, that means it's effectively dead.

Repairing it when internal components die is beyond what I can do. I'm still extremely disappointed in MSI. They can't make laptops that last 3 years anymore. My previous MSI laptop, in spite of struggling with hardware (I'm surprised it's still alive), is still running. It's 7-9 years old (I don't remember when I got it), and it's working better than my newer, "better" computer.

Laptops aren't made like they once were. I feel really old saying that, but I'm unfortunately not kidding. Society in general is moving towards thinner laptops, and that means some companies, like MSI, end up cutting corners. In this case, quite literally, since the hinges are technically a part of a corner. 

I have no clue what happened to the fans. All I know is that it's an internal issue, but one that also seems to be highly intermittent. They broke overnight, but to be fair, thermal issues had been on the rise for a week or so. I did nothing special to trigger it either. I went to bed, woke up, and poof, fans dead. 

If you're thinking about getting an MSI laptop... don't. You have to be _really_ lucky to get anything more than a couple years out of it, and especially at the general price tag they sell these craptops at, you're not getting much in return. The hinge issue is a _very_ well-known issue; enough for it to show up high and early in search engine autocomplete. The fan issues are high up as well, but not nearly as high as the hinge issues. These aren't one-off issues caused by not handling the computer properly, these are production faults MSI benefits from, and clearly aren't interested in fixing.

A [few sources](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=kj7IbsAsho0) indicate that the hinges breaking are due to a too tight bolt. I tried to loosen it while patching up mine, and physically couldn't. While this in particular might be a one-off, it seems to me like MSI doesn't _want_ people to loosen the bolts. God forbid they make a laptop that actually lasts.

That said, the laptop market in general, particularly in heavy workload/gaming laptops, is riddled with bad laptops prone to physically breaking. Instead of buying a laptop, consider a desktop. It's less portable, sure, but you get more power, lower temperatures, generally quieter fans, and more importantly, easy to repair and maintain, without MSI shaming you for breaking the computer.

So save your money; buy a laptop that can run what you need it to, and go for a desktop for everything else. In the vast majority of cases, what you lose in portability, you make up for in lifespan and computing power.

